# CM Internship Application
Repository for application to CM developer internship

## Work/Project examples
1. Project for my final presentation in my Web Developer course at SAIT.  It uses HTML, CSS, JavaScript and PHP and includes photos taken and edited by me.  This has a personal connection to me because I was inspired by the animals at the shelter where I volunteer.  All the animals on this site were once available for adoption and I took photographs of them. https://fluffy-friends.herokuapp.com/index.php and the GitHub repo is https://github.com/lkruger93/fluffy-friends.git
2. Website completed during my 8 week practicum to complete my SAIT certificate.  I used Shopify to change the colours and layout of the website, as well as adding photos.  The drop down menus, colour themes and layout of the different categories were all created by me.  I also added tags to the site, which had not been there previously and made a big difference in the UI and UX of the site, as it made it much easier to narrow down searches for specific products.  https://castletoys.ca/
3. Personal project to brush up my skills, featuring images found on Google but edited to fit in GIMP.  This touches on some things I'm passionate about and the use of CSS and PNG images makes it look interesting and professional. https://lkruger93.github.io/girl-games/

## Inspiration
1. Attention to detail in The Last of Us Part II.  So many games now feature amazing graphics, lighting, animation and more, but this game has been brought to the forefront of this due to its use of new technology to make these things happen. It also adds some new features that have rarely been seen before. An example of this is accessibility settings, allowing players who may have disabilities affecting hearing, sight, and more who may otherwise be unable to play conventional video games to enjoy the game in their own way.  For myself I was most inspired by the graphics and the lighting, as seeing it being so much better than games made even a few years earlier was really cool. Although not completely possible to showcase these things in a game without actually playing it, the gameplay demo video shows a lot of how it looks and makes you appreciate the effort it must have taken. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=btmN-bWwv0A
2. Allowing customization and colour changes using CSS, JavaScript and HTML in CodePen.  I was drawn to this codepen mainly because I love horses and am always interested in ways people can make cool horse-related things using nothing but pure coding.  I was also interested in this because in one of my previous projects (Fluffy Friend Finder) I wanted to do something similar with changing how an SVG looked using code, however I used JavaScript and just a few CSS classes to change the colours rather than CSS variables, which I would love to learn more about how to use myself. https://codepen.io/jakob-e/pen/ggGGRB
3. Building really interesting and detailed characters, environments and animations in an online game.  As a horse lover I'm always interested in horse-related things and seeing a hint of what a game that's still in development has is really exciting, because it looks like even something for mobile apps can have very well-built and detailed aspects and they've clearly made the effort to make things run well, not only within the game but the layout of the website and inclusion of animations really made it look good as well. Especially now that I've learned some things about development I think it's really impressive to see how much hard work people are putting into a still new idea, and the idea that it could eventually turn into something big is really exciting as well. https://equestrianthegame.com/gameplay

## Focus
Given the opportunity, I would love to use my time learning and building responsive and easy-to-use mobile and web applications, as I know those are more important than ever today.  I would also like to have the opportunity to explore using some of the features of game development to gamify both new and existing projects to make them easier for users and clients to learn how to use.  For both these things I would also like to get to become proficient in the design aspect of development, because that is a very important part of both of these projects.

## Code challenge
https://codesandbox.io/embed/2021-internship-exercise-menu-forked-5spbd?fontsize=14&hidenavigation=1&theme=dark
I enjoyed how this challenge allowed me to use my design skills as well as JavaScript skills.  Figuring out how to make it start by using arrays, forEach loops and other ways to grow the information being passed into the arrays was really important from the start.  Once I got all the data where I needed it I had to figure out how to make it appear the correct way on the screen, and I thought it was cool how I managed to embed a ul inside the ul already in the HTML using JavaScript.  My favourite part was making the menu look Italian by adding a linear gradient to the background for the header.  I attempted to get the checkbox working by adding the input in the HTML then in index.js I used the checked attribute but it never seemed to change when I unchecked the box.
